ReactJS is a declarative, efficient, and flexible JavaScript library for building reusable UI components. It is an open-source, component-based front end library responsible only for the view layer of the application.


A ReactJS application is made up of multiple components, each component responsible for outputting a small, reusable piece of HTML code.

The components are the heart of all React applications. These Components can be nested with other components to allow complex applications to be built of simple building blocks.

ReactJS uses virtual DOM based mechanism to fill data in HTML DOM. The virtual DOM works fast as it only changes individual DOM elements instead of reloading complete DOM every time.


Why learn ReactJS?
Today, many JavaScript frameworks are available in the market(like angular, node), but still, React came into the market and gained popularity amongst them. The previous frameworks follow the traditional data flow structure, which uses the DOM (Document Object Model). DOM is an object which is created by the browser each time a web page is loaded. It dynamically adds or removes the data at the back end and when any modifications were done, then each time a new DOM is created for the same page. This repeated creation of DOM makes unnecessary memory wastage and reduces the performance of the application.

Therefore, a new technology ReactJS framework invented which remove this drawback. ReactJS allows you to divide your entire application into various components. ReactJS still used the same traditional data flow, but it is not directly operating on the browser's Document Object Model (DOM) immediately; instead, it operates on a virtual DOM. It means rather than manipulating the document in a browser after changes to our data, it resolves changes on a DOM built and run entirely in memory. After the virtual DOM has been updated, React determines what changes made to the actual browser's DOM. The React Virtual DOM exists entirely in memory and is a representation of the web browser's DOM. Due to this, when we write a React component, we did not write directly to the DOM; instead, we are writing virtual components that react will turn into the DOM.



To Set up React js

	To install react ----------> npm install -g create-react-app

	To create react app ---->    npx create-react-app my-app   

React uses ECMA6

React renders HTML to the web page by using a function called ReactDOM.render()

The HTML code in React uses JSX which allows you to write HTML tags inside the JavaScript code

What is JSX

	JSX stands for JavaScript XML.

	JSX allows us to write HTML in React.

	JSX makes it easier to write and add HTML in React.
	
	JSX converts HTML tags into react elements
	
	JSX is an extension of the JavaScript language based on ES6, and is translated into regular JavaScript at runtime.
	
	With JSX you can write expressions inside curly braces { }
	
React Components	


